Entrepreneur Obsessed

Who Is Grant Cardone?

Cardone’s Early Career

After graduating from college, Grant Cardone started his career in
sales. He lived in Houston, TX, LaJolla, CA, and Los Angeles. Within
this timeframe, he developed a bad drug problem which led him to do a
stint in rehab. Grant was able to start a new chapter in his life after
he had completed rehab. Grant hated his job in sales, but he hated
being broke. He also knew that having that job kept him busy and
focused so he didn’t have time for drugs. Within five years, Grant was
a millionaire. He worked as a car salesman while also investing in real
property on the side.

Grant Cardone’s net worth from investing in real estate

While a car salesman, Grant Cardone invested in his first property, a
single-family property in Houston. After renting to tenants for seven
months, they left. Grant Cardone’s cash flow dried up. This would
be Grant Cardone’s first lesson in investing in real estate.

He never wanted to depend on one tenant for income and cash flow. He
decided that his next property would become a multifamily complex in
San Diego five years later. He bought his second property a month after
his first multifamily purchase. His strategy was to use money from the
first two to fund the third.

Grant continued to use this strategy and slowly acquired more and more
property. By 2012, Grant Cardone’s company was said to have the largest
private party acquisitions in Florida – especially for multi-family
property. Today, he owns 4.500 apartments.

Grant Cardone Businesses

Tell us about the subsequent businesses. What was the secret to this
success?

My first business was the attention-getting business. This was how I
funded my second business.

It was a consulting company in the automobile industry. I basically
went up to this multi-billion dollar automotive industry and said,
“Look, the way you do business is antiquated.”

In the USA and Canada, I started consulting car dealers and
manufacturers on ways they could improve their processes so that they
were more customer-friendly, quick, profitable, and efficient with
customers and dealers. I still have that company today. That business
was started with 50 grand. It is now 30 years old and has probably made
10 million dollars each year for the past 30 years.

My idea was to change the auto industry. And I think everybody could
learn from this too. I went up to the auto industry and had them paying
me to learn about this idea. They were investors, but not investors.

I offered to sell them a product or service in exchange for their
listening to my pitch on the consulting business. I was trying to
educate them on new ways of doing things. A small portion of the room
would request more of my services.

People would be willing to pay for the whole two-day deal and I would
offer a 30-minute free session. After a point, over 200 people paid to
see me speak. I traveled all over the country and was doing 250
speaking gigs a year. We were selling them the consulting business
then.

Those were the first two businesses and they still work
today. Personally, I don’t care about automotive right now. The
business has grown dramatically today, from furniture companies to
financial institutions.

I’ve worked with almost all fortune 200 companies, either by being paid
to speak to them or directly work with them. I have also worked with a
lot of network marketing companies in building their teams and helping
them grow.

The third business was writing books, and programs.

So far, we’ve written 7 books along with 13 best-selling online
business programs. It has made hundreds of millions with online
education, thousands of times more than the books.

Our fourth business was Cardone University, an online education
platform. Cardone on Demand is our fourth.

Cardone’s 10X Rule

The 10X Rule was born from the writing of programs and books. It is a
wildly popular stand-alone brand created by Grant Cardone. It is based
solely on the idea of figuring out what you want. Then you multiply the
effort it will take to get there by ten. This applies to money, family,
relationships, and business.

Grant hosts an annual three-day conference for entrepreneurs and
business owners that is based on the principles of the book. This
conference aims to shift mindsets and behavior to give people
confidence in their ability to improve their lives. This conference
covers topics such as sales, marketing, creating a dream life,
branding, and more. It challenges sales and marketing gurus to up their
game ten times more than what they currently give to their profession.

This event has seen many speakers, including Steve Harvey, Tai Lopex
and Sarah Blakely. Daymond John, Russell Brunson and Bethenny Frankel
are just a few of the others. These speakers share their personal
stories about achieving life goals and how you can do the exact same.

ABOUT GRANT

Grant Cardone is the bestselling author of The 10X Rule and If You’re
Not First, You’re Last as well as a sales trainer, speaker, and
entrepreneur who has worked in real estate and the auto industry. Grant
Cardone, a real estate mogul, built his multifamily portfolio worth
$1.9 billion from scratch. Forbes Magazine named him the #1 marketer to
follow in 2017.

© 2022 Entrepreneur Obsessed • Built with GeneratePress

#RSS Feed for TheRealDeal.com

Grant Cardone crushes lawsuit accusing him of misleading real estate
investors

Disgruntled investor accused the real estate crowdfunding guru of
misleading investors about his deals and the amount of monthly profits

Miami
May.May 04, 2021 05:45 PM
By Francisco Alvarado

A legal offensive that attempted to use Grant Cardone’s outsized social
media presence against him has failed.

U.S. District Judge John F. Walter last week dismissed a lawsuit filed
by disgruntled investor Luis Pino in Los Angeles against the real
estate crowdfunding guru and his Aventura-based company Cardone
Capital.

In dismissing the case, Walter concluded that Pino failed to adequately
allege that Cardone made material misstatements and omissions about a
15 percent annual rate of return on any investments made to Cardone
Capital’s real estate funds; as well as the likelihood and amount of
cash distributions for investors; and the acquisition and financing of
properties purchased by the Cardone funds.

Cardone told The Real Deal that he blamed Pino’s lawyers for filing a
weak case that had no merit.

“It is a shame that in our society, ambulance seeking, vampiric
blood-drinking litigation attorneys attempt to threaten people like me
who are trying to build businesses,” Cardone said. “The case was
completely baseless. There was zero truth to the allegations.”

Pino’s lawyers, Krysta Kauble Pachman and Marc Seltzer, did not
immediately respond to phone and email messages seeking comment.

Pino, an Inglewood, California resident who invested $10,000 in two
Cardone funds in September 2019, alleged that Cardone Capital ignored
warnings from a Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement lawyer.
The lawyer’s warnings were to remove misleading claims about a monthly
distribution investors would receive that amounted to about a 15
percent annual return on investment, according to the suit.

Pino’s complaint, which sought class action status on behalf of other
Cardone Capital investors, alleged that Cardone pitched a wealthy
lifestyle similar to his, if people put money into his real estate
crowdfunding business.

The lawsuit cited a Sept. 17, 2019 Instagram video post in which
Cardone said a $220,000 investment could net a $660,000 position in one
of the funds, and could also earn about $12,000 to $15,000 in
distributions to investors. Pino also claimed, among other allegations,
that Cardone’s statements about the funds making monthly distributions
were misleading because Cardone suspended payments in April and May 20,
at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Judge Walter concluded that documents provided to investors known as
“Offering Circulars” clearly disclosed that “the timing and amount of
distributions are the sole discretion of our manager,” and that the
distributions resumed in June 2020. In fact, that month Pino received a
distribution that was three times larger than the regular monthly
distribution, to make up for the lack of disbursements in April and May
of last year, the ruling states.

Walter also found that Pino failed to prove that Cardone misled
investors into believing that he, and not them, would be responsible
for making all debt service payments on any acquired properties.
According to the judge’s ruling, the Offering Circulars make clear that
Cardone and the investors would be jointly responsible for the debt,
which he also disclosed in social media posts.

“Every single one of the claims was thrown out and completely
dismissed,” Cardone said. “We created Cardone Capital to help the
little guy, and we were validated. We have continued to buy about one
billion dollars’ worth of real estate while this was going on.”

Attorneys specializing in securities litigation think he is an easy
target because of his boisterous social media postings, Cardone added.

“They saw that I have a following on Youtube and Instagram, and that I
have a big mouth,” he said. “I knew we wouldn’t lose because we didn’t
do anything wrong.”

All rights reserved © 2022 The Real Deal is a registered Trademark of
Korangy Publishing Inc.

3050 Biscayne Boulevard, Suite 604, Miami, FL 33137

Is Grant Cardone tall?

Height is important because people see short women and men as less
attractive and less successful.

Therefore, many celebrities routinely lie or exaggerate their height.
They tend to add 1-3 inches to their height out of vanity.

When you see someone on TV or in a movie, it can be difficult to judge
how tall they really are – especially since there are simple tricks to
change your perception of height. Besides, everyone looks taller on
screen than life.

So let me tell you how tall Grant Cardone actually is in this article.

What’s Grant Cardone Height?

Grant Cardone Height: 6ft (183 cm)

Grant Cardone is the best-selling author of The 10X Rule and If You are
Not First, You are Last, as well as a sales trainer, speaker, and
entrepreneur who has worked in the real estate and automotive
industries.

Grant Cardone was born on March 21, 1958, and he has a height of 6ft
(183 cm).

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Every adventure will contain experiences you would never want.

Evidence of Grant Cardone’s Height

Let’s take a look at the below photos of Grant Cardone to gauge his
actual height.

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Just because most don’t make it doesn’t mean you can’t.

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Have goals so big your problems pale in comparison.

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Never fear the haters. You can’t reach your potential without them.

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Criticism’s easily avoided by saying, doing and being nothing.

Grant Cardone Height Grant Cardone Height

Small thinking has and always will be punished in one way or
another.

While height is important in judging a person’s attractiveness, nothing
is as important as having money.

Regardless of your height, you must learn how to earn money
intelligently in order to appear successful and powerful.
